README.md, before:

# Jumpstart your Software Engineering Career

[![Contact me on Codementor](https://cdn.codementor.io/badges/contact_me_github.svg)](https://www.codementor.io/amappuji?utm_source=github&utm_medium=button&utm_term=amappuji&utm_campaign=github)
[![Made in Indonesia](https://made-in-indonesia.github.io/made-in-indonesia.svg)](https://github.com/made-in-indonesia/made-in-indonesia)

A small, yet impactful e-book on jumpstart your software engineering career. Dedicated for rising talent in Indonesia.

# Foreword by Someone

# Preface

## Why this book created

Let me start with a story. When I was in college, I have no idea what life after college looks like. I never plan for internship, in fact I don't know what is internship in the first place until I saw all my friends going to internship at a reputable company except me that goes only to laboratory for internship. At that time, I think there's no different until I accepted at Microsoft Indonesia for a 3-months internship. And yes, it is so much different! We'll discuss more the different the first chapter when I discuss about internship.

Similar to what I experienced with internship, I want discuss everything I wish I know when I was in college event at high-school to bootstrap my career in software engineering and in general. If I knew what I'll discuss here, I'll be dozen years ahead. I already few years ahead of my peers, but having more speed and power in your car always good. In this book we'll discuss basic principle (the why), technical tips & tricks (the how), and what are the things you can do (the what) to accelerate your career in Software Engineering field, especially for audience in Indonesia.

## How to use this book

I design this book to be long enough to cover things to jumpstart your career, and short enough to encourage you to finish the book and apply it in your career. Contact us at [support@kulkul.tech](mailto:support@kulkul.tech) for critics and suggesstion.

# Chapter #1: The value of internship

# Chapter #2: Part-time job and side project

# Chapter #3: Corporate vs. Startup

# Chapter #4: Shortcut to your dream job

# Chapter #5: Find your champion

# Chapter #6: Weighing job offer

# Chapter #7: The 1st year

# Chapter #8: The 2nd year and beyond

# Chapter #9: Brand yourself

## Speaking at Conferences

# Chapter #10: Don't forget to be happy

# Chapter #11: Master the art of communication

Commit message:

Update early chapters with ideas

README.md, after:

# Jumpstart your Software Engineering Career

[![Contact me on Codementor](https://cdn.codementor.io/badges/contact_me_github.svg)](https://www.codementor.io/amappuji?utm_source=github&utm_medium=button&utm_term=amappuji&utm_campaign=github)
[![Made in Indonesia](https://made-in-indonesia.github.io/made-in-indonesia.svg)](https://github.com/made-in-indonesia/made-in-indonesia)

A small, yet impactful e-book on jumpstart your software engineering career. Dedicated for rising talent in Indonesia.

# Foreword by Someone

# Preface

## Why this book created

Let me start with a story. When I was in college, I have no idea what life after college looks like. I never plan for internship, in fact I don't know what is internship in the first place until I saw all my friends going to internship at a reputable company except me that goes only to laboratory for internship. At that time, I think there's no different until I accepted at Microsoft Indonesia for a 3-months internship. And yes, it is so much different! We'll discuss more the different the first chapter when I discuss about internship.

Similar to what I experienced with internship, I want discuss everything I wish I know when I was in college event at high-school to bootstrap my career in software engineering and in general. If I knew what I'll discuss here, I'll be dozen years ahead. I already few years ahead of my peers, but having more speed and power in your car always good. In this book we'll discuss basic principle (the why), technical tips & tricks (the how), and what are the things you can do (the what) to accelerate your career in Software Engineering field, especially for audience in Indonesia.

## How to use this book

I design this book to be long enough to cover things to jumpstart your career, and short enough to encourage you to finish the book and apply it in your career. Contact us at [support@kulkul.tech](mailto:support@kulkul.tech) for critics and suggesstion.

# Chapter #0: The Software Engineering Career Path

- In this chapter I want to explore the career path that someone with coding background can take depending on their aspirations.

# Chapter #1: The value of internship

What I want to say here:

- I want to share how important it is to get an internship. Whether you're planning to be successful at your dream company or you want to create your own company, landing internship and how to get the most out of it would be very important to shape your career.
- One of the intenrship-hack I've done is doing a lot of 1-1 with senior member of the company. Even though you're only an intern, having 1-1 with senior member means you create connection with them as well as learn from their experience.

# Chapter #2: Part-time job and side project

- Sometime in college student want to get real-world experience, but they just about to graduate and it's not possible to get intenrship. In that case what I can give advice to my mentee is to take a part-time job or a side project. This kind of opportunity can help you build experience.

# Chapter #3: Corporate vs. Startup

- In 2010 Indonesia has started an e-commerce revolution where many e-commerce company and tech-based company rised. Tokopedia, Go-Jek and Traveloka was founded in this era. Since then a lot of tech job attracts graduate, and graduate now not only attracted multi-national company but also consider startup as their options to build their career. In this chapter we want to discuss the pro and cons and help the reader think this career options as a set of trade-offs they need to consider on building their career intentionally.

# Chapter #4: Shortcut to your dream job

- In this chapter I want to discuss small little secret of mine to help me get the job I want in my career.

# Chapter #5: Find your champion

- In this chapter I want to discuss with the reader how to get a champion in the company you want to join.

# Chapter #6: Weighing job offer

# Chapter #7: The 1st year

# Chapter #8: The 2nd year and beyond

# Chapter #9: Brand yourself

## Speaking at Conferences

# Chapter #10: Don't forget to be happy

# Chapter #11: Master the art of communication
